---
layout: post
title: "week of 17 september"
date: 2018-09-17
---

### recap

This is a continuation of an ongoing series of work logs following my journey to dockerize my people counter raspberry pi app. I feel like I'm almost done with it, but every day is a new discovery of things I didn't know I needed to do, followed by figuring out how to do those things. Follow along if you like, and feel free to go back through the annals of time:
- [a summary of july](http://carylwyatt.github.io/blog/2018/08/03/work-log-jul-30)
- [week of 6 august](http://carylwyatt.github.io/blog/2018/08/06/week-of-6-august)
- [week of 13 august](http://carylwyatt.github.io/blog/2018/08/13/week-of-13-august)
- [week of 20 august](http://carylwyatt.github.io/blog/2018/08/20/week-of-20-august)
- [week of 10 september](http://carylwyatt.github.io/blog/2018/09/10/week-of-10-sep)

### 17 sep

Continuing my quest to configure email on the pi. Since I plugged in the original SD card, it doesn't have any of the mail stuff I installed on the other SD card. I'm following the instructions from the raspberry pi forum post [No mail command with heirloom-mailx on Raspbian-Stretch](https://www.raspberrypi.org/forums/viewtopic.php?t=205603) then re-following the [sending email via gmail in linux](http://thelinuxtips.com/2011/09/19/sending-email-via-gmail-in-linux/) post and hoping for the best.

This approach worked as long as I use the command `mail` instead of `mailx`. Now to figure out how to configure the `unattended-upgrades` email...

There are many layers to this email business. I thought `mailx` was a program, but turns out it's just a command line tool to pass mail to your Mail Transfer Agent (sendmail, postfix, etc.). I ended up following the advice in the "No mail command..." post linked above and symlinked the commands `mail` and `mailx` to `heirloom-mailx`. I ran a test using both `mail` and `mailx` and they both sent email, so I'm going to say I'm good. Now I need to swap out the SD cards and update the other card and run the `unattended-upgrades` dry run to make sure it's sending the update email.

Ugghh, I installed too much crap on Thursday. Gotta uninstall `sendmail`:
- `sudo apt-get removed sendmail`
- `sudo apt-get purge sendmail*`
  - that asterisk is important, yo

Here's what ended up working:
- install heirloom-mailx: `sudo apt-get install heirloom-mailx`
- create mail config: `vim ~/.mailrc`
- add these lines:
  ```
  account gmail {
    set smtp-use-starttls
    set smtp=smtp://smtp.gmail.com:587
    set smtp-auth=login
    set smtp-auth-user=abcd@gmail.com
    set smtp-auth-password=mypassword
    set from="ABCD "
  }
  ```
- replace the last three lines with gmail stuff, including the gmail email between quotes on the last line
- set up symlinks for mail and mailx commands:
  - `sudo ln -s /usr/bin/heirloom-mailx /usr/bin/mail`
  - `sudo ln -s /usr/bin/heirloom-mailx /usr/bin/mailx`
- test with this command:
  - `echo "Test Email" | mailx -v -A gmail -s "test" yyyyyyyy@gmail.com`
  - check the sent folder of your new gmail account to see if it send the mail
  - you can also send a second test to yourself at a different email address

### 18 sep

Time to fix that weird container [timezone](https://serverfault.com/questions/683605/docker-container-time-timezone-will-not-reflect-changes) issue. Added this to the Dockerfile:

  ```
  ENV TZ=America/Indiana/Indianapolis
  RUN ln -snf /usr/share/zoneinfo/$TZ /etc/localtime && echo $TZ > /etc/timezone
  ```

Re-ran the docker build and this seemed to fix it. Boom! 

#### github

I've decided to keep both the google version and libinsight version of the people counter in the github file. I'll update the README to indicate they'll need to edit the `package.json` start command depending on which version they use. Then I'll push the image to docker hub. Huzzah! :tada::tada:

### 20 sep

Fire at Lawrence :scream: so we were closed yesterday. I was actually a little sad I didn't have my SD card at home to work on this. On my day off. Yikes.

#### libinsight

Something I hadn't thought about until now is how the count will be translated to the LibInsight API. The way our current gate counter works, it counts every person that walks through the gate regardless of whether that person is coming or going. The spreadsheet those count numbers ends up in then does the math to cut the number in half. That's also how I set up the google sheet for the counter before moving the count to the LibInsight API. 

My original plan was to have the request sent with something along the lines of `gate_start = (count/2)` to account for the in/out numbers. It doesn't seem that the libinsight API accepts decimal numbers. So how do I deal with this? Send full numbers and just know that those are raw counts? Do I write a program that holds on to half numbers and sends a full number when it can? (Maybe that doesn't make sense in writing...) 

After talking with the libapps taskforce, I'm going to try to set up a new dataset and making the "divide count by 2" the default setting. If that's not an option, everyone seems okay with dividing by two and rounding up. Sounsd like a plan. 

The automatic bidirectional count was exactly what I was looking for! It takes the count and divides it by two. Boom! I'm running tests overnight, and hopefully it'll be doing it's thing and I can finish dockerizing tomorrow. 

### 21 sep

Friday means day full of testing! I brought Scott's pi zero w to see if my docker image will run on it. So excited!

It booted! There's only one usb slot, so I'm going to try to navigate raspbian with the keyboard. :grimacing:

The original docker image from the first pull to this SD card is still on here. For whatever reason, my `docker run` is exiting with a weird code (139) that I can't identify via google. When I try to override `CMD` with `--entrypoint /bin/bash` flag, it still exits the container without dropping me into a REPL. 

Found a stack overflow ([docker exiting status code 139](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/46724237/docker-exiting-with-status-code-139)) that suggests testing the app outside the container, but I really don't want to *do* that. The whole point of using a container is that shit should just work in there. I don't want to have to download node and install npm and all the libraries, blah blah blah... 

So I'll keep trying, but it might be that this just won't work on a zero. :neutral_face: 
