---
layout: post
title: "week of 29 october"
date: 2018-10-29
---

### 31 oct

Happy Halloween! Time to figure out this spooky SD card. Maybe. Hopefully.

I reflashed Jonathan's SD card three times, and I keep getting the kernel panic error. Whatever I'm doing isn't working, so it's time to try something new.

Error: `Kernel panic - not syncing: VFS: Unable to mount root fs on unknown-block(179,2)`

I might try to flash a different image onto Jonathan's card to check if it's **this** image or any image that's causing this error.

Did some [fdisk/gparted sleuthing](http://kbdatabase.org/article.php?id=64) and found that the problem is my image is from a 32GB SD card and the image I'm trying to flash is a full 29.8GB... Jonathan's card is only 8GB. So I need to figure out how to shrink my image??

Yes, resizing raspberry pi images is possible. Turns out there are lots of ways to do it, but I'm going to try [rpi-clone](https://github.com/billw2/rpi-clone). We'll see what happens! Well, boo. This really only works on a raspberry pi with a USB CF card reader adapter for the raspberry pi. Need to find a linux cli solution.

Trying another raspberry pi-specific repo, [shrink](https://github.com/qrti/shrink). My main hesitation about this method is that it will write the smaller image to the current SD card. I do have a backup, but it's still worrisome. Here we go! ...aaaaand it didn't work. Got error: `dd: error writing image.img: No space left on device`. Like, yes. That's the whole point of resizing the image is that the SD card is full. But I thought one of the steps of this process is that the card gets wiped? I looked at the SD card in my file manager and it looks blank. ??
