---
layout: post
title: "week of 17 jun"
date: 2019-06-17
---

### 17 jun

I'm quite exhausted from my weekend in Indiana, but this ish has to get going. If I don't figure out this stupid `userGroupsAdmin` nonsense in the next few days, I'm going to pull my hair out.

Right off the bat, I decided to take a look at what the live `/manage-user-groups` route has going on in the console since I'm already logged out after the weekend. It gave me a `401 (Unauthorized)` for the `/users/me` endpoint, which is not surprising. But it doesn't match the error in the docker build: `net::ERR_CONNECTION_REFUSED`. Also, the live site still generated a `ualibweb.Token` that is showing up in `window.localStorage` even though no one is logged in. Oddly, it does have the `WP_DATA_USER_118` in localStorage, too, so maybe that's a cookie/cache situation?

No matter who I log in as in the docker site, the localStorage remains `WP_DATA_USER_1`. I've logged in as me, as Boris, and Andrew... no difference. I wonder how I can change that? I've tried deleting cookies, hard reloading the cache... nothing. As Andrew, it should have me listed as `WP_DATA_USER_11`, but nope. Then again, I did well and truly screw something up when I imported this user table and erased my original admin account. I might need to just reinstall wordpress and add the `wp_users` and `wp_usermeta` tables after instead of completely wiping.

I reinstalled wordpress using the database prefix `wp2_` in the `wp-config.php` file. Then I added Andrew as a user to the new install. Still getting the same weird localStorage nonsense and ERR_CONNECTION_REFUSED in the console about `/users/me`... so it wasn't the messed up users table that was causing the issue in the other one. The problem there was that I couldn't make myself an administrator once I deleted my old admin account, so I couldn't get to the backend. :joy:

Back to square one, I guess. 

Next plan: copy all WP files directly from live server and export all WP data, put that stuff in a new docker container and see what happens. I'm very tired of building this thing, but maybe if I'm running the production version, there will be some setting that switches on that I'm missing?? Let's hope.

I'm in the middle of testing the docker build on my laptop (where I plan on working on the 1-1 build of the live site), when I stumbled up on a new mystery: even though I added Andrew as a user, the `/users` endpoint still only lists me as a user. Where is Andrew?? ...after a Google, it seems this is on purpose. If a user hasn't published any posts, they are left out of the users endpoint.

Then I tried to go to my specific user ID endpoint: `/users/1` and got a WP error page. Here's the log:
```
[Mon Jun 17 18:53:25.001707 2019] 
[php7:error] 
[pid 735] 
[client 172.30.0.1:43124] 

PHP Fatal error:  Uncaught Error: Call to undefined function gGetUserData() in /var/www/html/wp-content/themes/roots-ualib/functions.php:52

Stack trace:

#0 /var/www/html/wp-content/themes/roots-ualib/functions.php(83): createToken(Array)

#1 /var/www/html/wp-includes/rest-api/endpoints/class-wp-rest-controller.php(395): {closure}(Array, 'token', Object(WP_REST_Request), 'user')

#2 /var/www/html/wp-includes/rest-api/endpoints/class-wp-rest-users-controller.php(949): WP_REST_Controller->add_additional_fields_to_object(Array, Object(WP_REST_Request))

#3 /var/www/html/wp-includes/rest-api/endpoints/class-wp-rest-users-controller.php(422): WP_REST_Users_Controller->prepare_item_for_response(Object(WP_User), Object(WP_REST_Request))

#4 /var/www/html/wp-includes/rest-api/class-wp-rest-server.php(946): WP_REST_Users_Controller->get_item(Object(WP_REST_Request))

#5 /var/www/html/wp-includes/rest-api/class-wp-rest-server.php(329): WP_REST_Server->dispatch(Object(WP_REST_Request))

#6 /var/www/html/wp-includes/rest-api.php(309): WP_REST_Se in /var/www/html/wp-content/themes/roots-ualib/functions.php on line 52
```

The `sGP/functions.php` weren't loading, which is what was causing my WebApps admin icon disappearance. It's back now and so is the user ID endpoint, but I'm still not setting the `ualibweb.Token` in localStorage. What's WEIRD though, is that my `/users/1` endpoint has a token set. Like, the object has a key called "token". How?! Where is that being injected? Why? And what does it do?
