---
layout: post
title: "week of 18 march"
date: 2019-03-18
---

### 18 mar

Things got hectic at the end of Friday before spring break. Because I was hustlin' so hard, I didn't have time to update the log. Let's see if I can recap and update with today's fixes.

I think this whole thing can be boiled down to: 

- I'm still new 
- this was my first time pushing to the deploy repo 
- there is scant documentation on the codebase/git workflow

All of that added up to a bit of a storm when a request was made to **push to production on the Friday before spring break**. Thankfully, this was a pretty minor update, so it wasn't a huge deal that it didn't end up happening last week. Still, what I pushed to production broke the homepage, and even after fixing it last week and updating it today, I'm not sure *why* that happened. Here comes the post mortem.

We received a "feature request" for a new box on the homepage. The requester originally wanted a sort of CRUD application style plugin where anyone who is logged in to wordpress can update the box (basically a mini-blog). When it came down to it though, it just needed to be a box with an image in it that pointed to a blog. HOWEVER, because of the nature of the original request, I started working on that stuff I wrote about last Friday with the JSON data, GET auth/permissions, etc. I also started digging into how to build an Angular module (complete with directive/controller), which I was building outside the local build in order to get my head around the concepts before breaking anything.

When it got to be around 3PM, it was clear that the box with linked image was going to have to be the solution for now. Because of all the previous digging I had done, some of the changes I'd unknowingly made to my local codebase were also pushed to the live site. These changes broke the homepage. [Sidenote: I'm **baffled** by this because I never ran the live-build compile step. If my changes weren't added to the `.min` files (couldn't have been, because those `.min` files are only compiled during when `grunt live-build` is run, which I didn't even know existed until this morning), then they couldn't have been live, even if they were pushed to the deploy repo. The only explanation that makes sense to me is something from my files must've messed with a GitHub hook we have set up. And I don't know anything about those yet, so it's just speculation at this point.]

We had a lot of fun scrambling to revert commits and reset the HEAD and undo merges at 4:45PM. I definitely learned a lot about undoing stuff. I hope I don't need it again, but I probably will. 

ALL THAT TO SAY: When Jared was here this morning, I had him walk me through his workflow for pushing to the deploy repo, and I learned all about the `grunt live-build` command that builds the `.min` files. I've now written out a complete workflow that includes creating a branch locally so future reverts/resets won't be so complicated. Here is that workflow in all its glory:

#### building locally, pushing to dev

- create a new branch: `git checkout -b caryl-feature-name`
- run grunt to compile local/dev build: `grunt default`
- commit as you go!
  - `git status` to see changes to be staged
  - `git commit -am "concise message"`
- when you need to push, push your branch to the `ualibweb/roots-ualib` repo with `git push origin caryl-feature-name`
- when ready to merge branch to dev, create pull request to **dev** (need to change the request location dropdown in pull request) to see changes on `wwwdev2` server
- merge pull request
- once merged, delete the branch:
  - manually delete from github: click `[number] branches`, then click the red trashcan icon next to your now-defunct branch
    - look into adding this action: [branch cleanup action](https://github.com/jessfraz/branch-cleanup-action)
  - `git branch -d caryl-feature-name`

#### ready to go live? pull request checklist

- make sure links and images point to live server (i.e. no `wwwdev2` links/images)
- run `grunt live-build` to build minified files
- push to dev `git push origin master`
- create pull request to `ualib-deploy`
- let steven know so he can merge

### accessibility reading/viewing

Spent the afternoon learning about accessibility. The deeper I dig into this, the more depressed I am at how hard the web is to use for people with disabilities. I learend a lot today from these links:

* Today's learning was kicked off by a tweet I saw during spring break that lead to this article: [The web we broke](https://ethanmarcotte.com/wrote/the-web-we-broke/)
* Which led to me signing up for [A11yWeekly](https://a11yweekly.com/), a weekly accessibility newsletter
* And also led me to read more about [WebAIM's "WebAIM Million"](https://webaim.org/projects/million/) project, which was depressing to say the least
* This new accessibility tool was showcased somehwere in that tweet thread: [Accessibility Insights](https://accessibilityinsights.io/en/). It seems like WAVE but has better integration for testing and CI
* Somewhere in that tweet thread, someone posted a link to this [Smashing Mag webinar in which we follow a blind screenreader user attempting to navigate many different sites](https://www.smashingmagazine.com/2019/02/accessibility-webinar/) which was the most depressing of all but also the most insightful and where I learned the most. Some tips I picked up from her:
  * CSS `display:none;` and HTML `<hidden>` element are best for hiding things for *everyone*
  * Most `aria-role`s aren't as helpful for screen readers as semantic markup, so use HTML elements over ARIA whenever possible; fall back on ARIA for things that don't exist in HTML, like tabbed box content/tabs
  * `aria-label` is another exception, as it can help add context to HTML elements. Her example was:

```
<section aria-label="Summary">
</section>
``` 

  * "This is announced as 'Summary region start' and 'Summary region end', and can be skipped over if desired." Good to know!

Then I attempted to use the macOS screen reader, VoiceOver. I really only got as far as a few bits of the tutorial... it was so bad. I will need to play around with that so I can test our website and libguides, because it's definitely an important part of accessibility! 

Spent the rest of the day using the WAVE tool on our website and digging in to the issues I found. First, our "today's hours" app/widget/box is considered a layout table because it doesn't have any headers. Trying to find the template for this box led me down a deep rabbit hole of how our apps interact with the rest of the site. It's very interesting! The important bits were here:

* `assets/vendor/ualib-hours`
* `assets/vendor/ualib-hours/src/app/lib-hours-today`
* `assets/vendor/ualib-hours/src/app/list`

### 19 mar

I've been assigned a new project! It's actually a legacy project that has passed hands many times, so it's not new, but it is new to *me*. I'll be working on a form that IT uses to authorize accounts for new employees. There's some logic that automagically fills in check boxes when a department is selected from an earlier form field. Some new checkboxes are needed and some of the auto-fill needs updated. 

It shouldn't take me too long to update the form, but I'm intrigued with the javascript that has been cobbled together over the years. I'm very tempted to write unit tests for this script to get back up to speed with mocha/chai. Since this doesn't exist in the wordpress/angular environment, I won't risk breaking anything by adding tests. This will give me the chance to refamiliarize myself with the tooling and best practices of unit testing before adding them to a larger codebase with a structure I don't understand.

Time to do some reading! :clap::clap::grin: 

#### notes from reading *Refactoring JavaScript*

We must refactor this codebase. *Things Work, But For How Much Longer? : A Story of Massive Technical Debt*

* We can't refactor without tests (pg. 4-7)
  * Tests insure that when we change code, we **don't** modify behavior
  * If you want to modify behavior, that's a bug fix or feature request, NOT refactoring
* If we want to upgrade to a newer version of Angular, we need tests in place for verifying behavior of codebase as we migrate (pg 24)
* Tests = fewer emergencies, fewer bugs

### 20 mar


