---
layout: post
title: "week of 29 jul"
date: 2019-07-29
---

### 29 jul 

This week:
- intranet-- all day, e'rry day
- which hopefully includes testing the LDAP plugin, finally
- finish up instruction forms

*At the end of Friday, I was frantically trying to put my thoughts down on paper about the `phpmailer` error I was running into. Here's what I had.*

PHP fatal error when trying to export CSV: `phpmailerException` already declared
- Why is this even being invoked?
- No sign of php mailer or any other mail settings in data export module
- This file isn't even in the same directory as the intranet! It's in `www`
- Okay, so `phpmailer` is included in incident report...
- Monday: figure out a way to temporarily delete or disable the incident report or `phpmailer` stuff and see what happens

I guess I'm going to reacquaint myself with that situation and see if I can disable some or all of that incident report mailing system... I'm assuming this form along with many others will become a different kind of form and that `phpmailer` won't even be necessary? 

But that still doesn't explain why this class is being invoked at all in the first place during export... the views data export module doesn't use `phpmailer`??

#### ILLiad and CAIAsoft

Almost immediately after writing this, Steven hit me with a project request from Tom for an integration between a new software the Annex folks are using called CAIAsoft and our ILL client, ILLiad.

I spent the rest of the morning/early afternoon researching what all of this stuff is and does so we could meet with Cornelia at 2. Cornelia is going to to install the CAIAsoft add-on and test the configuration, and if she needs a hand, that's where I'm going to step in.

And now somehow it's 4 pm and I feel like I've done nothing but I've actually done quite a lot!

Now that we have a plan, and Cornelia is working on that, tomorrow I'll be getting back to the intranet stuff. 

### 30 jul

Will I get this drupal export bug figured out today? :crossed_fingers:

Spent the morning trying to debug the stupid `phpmailer` issue with no luck. Every time I commented something out or temporarily renamed a file, another error was thrown. I could NOT figure out how that class was even being invoked, so I gave up. I'm sure it has something to do with a relative filepath set somewhere, but I couldn't diagnose it easily, so I decided to write some SQL queries and pull the content directly from the database instead. 

This has taken up all of my afternoon, but I have learned a bunch about drupal tables and SQL, so that's good. I'm leaving off on trying to figure out how to link a page URL to the body of a `node_revision`... I bet there's a way to do it, but it's going to take some digging.

Found it! `url_alias` table has `src` and `dst` fields, which is *exactly* what I was looking for. Now... how to connect the URLs to the content in the node revision? I'm going to need to join three tables... booooo. Content lives in `node_revisions`, the node/version IDs and URLs of the pages are in `content_type_policies_procedures_page` and the node ID (sort of) connected to the URL is in `url_alias`.

This will be a good challenge for a fresh brain tomorrow morning.

### 31 jul

This whole day got all topsy-turvy, so nothing to report really except:
- met with Sara about instruction forms; contact springshare to resolve a weird issue
- tested webapps on new server, everything seems to be working!
