---
layout: post
title: "week of 25 march"
date: 2019-03-25  
---

### 25 mar

#### server/apache log fun

On Friday, Jennifer hooked me up with some info about our apache logs so I can see PHP errors in realtime. Imma drop that info here for future reference:

* ssh into dev/prod server
* `cd /var/log/apache2`
* `less <filename>` - quick view and scan a file or logfile
* `tail -f <filename>` - watch output to file (like a logfile in real time)

Haley fixed her code this morning, so the hours API is back up and functioning and I can continue with my angular directives/controllers/testing journey. Yay! :tada:

#### building a test angular app

I went over the [AngularJS fundamentals in 60 minutes](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=i9MHigUZKEM) video again today, but this time I actually followed along with the coding. Through this process I found out why my previous angular app wasn't working! There are some difference in the very early version of angular we use... surprise! This time, the app actually runs and has some dynamic behavior. 

After that, I decided to dive back into the hours app code. I kept getting my wires crossed, so I ended up taking notes/mind mapping the code. This was insanely helpful, so I'll need to remember that for the future. I'm hoping all these apps are structured in more-or-less the same method, so maybe after I figure this one out, the rest of them will be "easy." 

I realized today that our apps all use class-based directives. :flushed: After I've finished writing tests, one of my first refactors will be changing these class-restricted directives to attribute-restricted directives. 

Also came across [John Papa's Angular style guide](https://github.com/johnpapa/angular-styleguide/blob/master/a1/README.md) which will prove to be very helpful in the coming weeks.

### 26 mar

Read a great article today (via twitter, of course): [Innovate this! Bullshit in academic libraries and what we can do about it](https://digital.library.ryerson.ca/islandora/object/RULA%3A7113)

Worked on review material via digital measures for quite some time this morning, as well.

I've been trying to figure out how exactly the app code ends up in the dev repo. For example, the hours app is its own repo: `hours_ui`. This app also technically lives in the `roots-ualib` repo, but it doesn't end up in the compiled build. So... where is that all happening? And how does it end up live? 

I learned pretty early on that all the stuff in the `vendor` folder (which, coincidentally, is the folder that doesn't end up in the compiled build) is all compiled into the `scripts_bower.js` file. As I was messing with the hours app as it exists in `roots`, I noticed the grunt build isn't affected by any changes made in that folder. Which led me to believe there must be some kind of connection between the `hours_ui` repo and the `roots` repo. The `hours_ui` repo has its own grunt build and development workflow... is the compile for the `hours_ui` build somehow connected to the `roots` repo through a github hook or something? Guess I'm going to have to make a small change and see how `grunt live-build` in `hours_ui` changes things or doesn't. :woman_shrugging:

Hokay, so. `hours_ui` is listed as a bower dependency, so it ends up getting pulled in/compiled during the grunt build (I tested: it does it for both default and live tasks). Any template/js changes in those apps end up in `/assets/js/scripts_bower.js`. List of our apps in the bower dependencies list: 

* `ualib-ui`
* `onesearch`
* `ualib-hours`
* `manage`
* `databases`
* `musicSearch`
* `ualib_staffdir`
* `ualib-softwareList`
* `ualib-news`
* `compfinder`

Today was an object lesson in the complexity of this codebase. Every time I think I finally have a grasp on it, there's yet another layer. I hope this is one of the last things that doesn't make sense, but that's probably wishful thinking, right?

### 27 mar

Testing! I'm trying to figure out where to start with writing tests for the hours app. Looking through the angular docs, it looks like they recommend:

* [Karma](http://karma-runner.github.io/latest/index.html): command line tool for spawning web server in the browser
* [Jasmine](https://jasmine.github.io/1.3/introduction.html): BDD frameworks
  * Karma is "test framework agnostic" so I could use mocha/chai if I want, but Jasmine seems pretty similar, so I might stick with it for now since Angular documentation has unit/e2e test examples for their API in Jasmine
* ngMocks: mocking for tests
* [Protractor](http://www.protractortest.org/#/): end-to-end testing framework built by angular
* [angular-seed](https://github.com/angular/angular-seed): an example angular project that includes tests; maybe follow this setup?

I think I'll start by cloning the angular-seed project and getting it set up to see how all the things run.

Also: since all these apps already use grunt/bower, I need to do some digging on how to add automatic testing to the Gruntfile. 

Get ready to break some stuff! :sweat_smile:

Steps I followed to install testing stuff:

#### karma

* `cd hours_ui`
* `npm i karma --save-dev`
* `npm i karma-jasmine karma-chrome-launcher jasmine-core --save-dev`
* `npm i -g karma-cli`
* `karma init my.conf.js`
  * ran through the config questions, kept everything default
  * added a test folder with a `**_spec.js` file in it so I could answer the location of source/test
* `karma start my.conf.js` launches karma in chrome browser
* `npm i grunt-karma --save-dev`
* added `grunt.loadNpmTasks('grunt-karma');` to Gruntfile
* added this `karma` section to gruntfile that points to karma config
  ```
    karma: {
      unit: {
        configFile: 'my.conf.js',
        background: true,
        singleRun: false
      }
    }
  ```
* added this to the watch task:
```
  karma: {
    files: ['src/app/**/*.js', 'test/*spec.js'],
    tasks: ['karma:unit:run']
  }
```
* Added `karma` to the `dev-build` registerTask function

#### jasmine

* still in `hours_ui`
* `npm i jasmine --save-dev`
* did not `jasmine init` because config for jasmine is already in the karma config

I think that's all that I need to do for installing/configuring Jasmine, but I won't really know until I write a test!

Ran a test, but had some karma settings messed up. I needed to add some angular files to the files list:
* `'bower_components/angular/angular.js'`
* `'bower_components/angular-route/angular-route.js'`

#### testing

Successfully passing hello world sanity test! :raised_hands:

I'm sure as I add more things to test, I'll need to include most if not all of the bower components.

I also added ngMocks via `npm i --save-dev angular-mocks@1.2.18` which is the oldest version that exists in npm. Then added it to the karma conf under files: `'node_modules/angular-mocks/angular-mocks.js'`

Started with writing a "simple" test for one directive and immediately ran into errors. After much googling and many trials, it turns out versions of angular and angular-mocks have to match. :roll_eyes: For future reference: our angular version in bower is `"angular": ">=1 <1.3.0"` which means we have to use version 1.2.32 of angular-mocks. Now you know. For some reason, I've been under the assumption that we were on version 1.2.7 of angular, but I just checked the source code (which I should've done day one), and we're on 1.2.32. So that shit adds up. :expressionless:

### 28 mar

New day, new opportunity for failing tests. :thumbsup:

Early success this morning! Got my grunt watch tasks working so the karma ui doesn't freak out when I change a test. :tada: Spoke too soon on that one, but I did get it figured out. I didn't correct it to my exacting standards, but it's working for now. The problem: I want Karma to run the tests in the chrome browser it opens when I first run grunt and then keep that browser open and refresh when new tests are added. The problem with the continuous version of karma via grunt is it blocks the rest of the `watch` task, which is not helpful. I think I have it working now, but it still occasionally gives me a weird error about grunt run not working... but then it continues working? It's still telling me how many tests are failing/passing? Who knows. Maybe I'll figure it out as I go along. For now, I'm using the configuration as laid out in the [`grunt-karma` docs](https://github.com/karma-runner/grunt-karma), so at least it's working.

Did some more digging (I can't help myself...) and found I didn't have `karma-cli` installed either as dev dependency or globally. I installed globally and no more error. :woman_facepalming: Not sure if it needs to be added to the dev dependency? This is one of those things where I feel like I could mess with it for the next week and it still wouldn't be set up correctly. There's too much I don't know about all of this: I'm new to angular, I've never used karma or jasmine, I haven't used grunt in five years, and there's a whole codebase/gruntfile here I know nothing about. So. I'm going to stop messing with the config unless I get an error that is causing dev problems.

All that said-- I know I just got all of this set up with Jasmine, but I really don't like the feedback in the console. I really appreciate the straightforward error messaging in mocha/chai... if I can't figure out how to work with jasmine, I'm going to have to swap it all out for mocha/chai. :grimacing:

#### testing

I've been trying to test a very simple directive. It's hard to cobble together different tutorials into the correct syntax for a test you're not even sure works. I've been trying to follow [Angular's directive unit testing](https://docs.angularjs.org/guide/unit-testing) and a [sitepoint tutorial for testing directives](https://www.sitepoint.com/angular-testing-tips-testing-directives/) but kept getting errors. I realized the two things these have in common with each other but **not** with my directive, is their templating is *inline* and doesn't import it using `templateUrl` in the directive. So. That explains why all my tests returned "Expected '' to be 'whatever'". The blank stands for where my template should be. 

I found some tutorials on testing directives that use templateUrl:

* [Testing AngularJS directives with Jasmine](https://busypeoples.github.io/post/testing-angularjs-directives/)
* [Testing AngularJS directive templates with Jasmine and Karma](http://daginge.com/technology/2013/12/14/testing-angular-templates-with-jasmine-and-karma/)
* [Unit testing AngularJS directives with external templates](https://www.cdh.com/blog/unit-testing-angularjs-directives-with-external-templates)
* [Rose Hulman: Unit testing AngularJS directives with Karma & Jasmine](https://www.rose-hulman.edu/class/csse/csse490WebServicesDev/201620/Slides/TestingAngularDirectives.pdf)

Turns out I'm going to need yet another plugin and do more configuring of my karma config file. `karma-ng-html2js-preprocessor` compiles templates to JS strings and generates angular modules and puts them in `$templateCache` so angular won't try to fetch them from the server. This all sounds like a good deal for testing... but this plugin hasn't been updated in about 3 years. Cool cool cool cool cool cool.

I thought I was picking an easy thing to unit test. There's only one directive per "app section" in our codebase, so I figured these would be the easiest place to start as sort of standalone units. BUT all the docs are like "testing directives is really tricky because HTML templates, http requests, `$compile/$digest`, watching, and DOM manipulation" so now I'm wondering if I should just continue on through this mess since I've gotten this far, or if I should pivot and focus on testing controllers. I'm just... :bowing_woman::bowing_woman: Time for a walk and some chocoalte, I suppose.

