---
layout: post
title: "week of 09 sep"
date: 2019-09-09
---

### 12 sep

Hieee! :wave: I had a baby! :baby: And she's perfect. :revolving_hearts: But now I'm back at work... from home. :woman_technologist::house:

I decided to keep it light last week and not worry about keeping a log, but things are starting to ramp up this week, and I'm going to need to remember decisions that are being made and things I try that work/don't work. That's what this work log is all about!

#### intranet

I somehow didn't have MAMP installed on this laptop?? I guess I always did wordpress stuff in docker. :woman_shrugging: To work on the intranet theme, I definitely need a server, so I downloaded MAMP, installed wordpress (how do I always forget to create the database before running the install?), downloaded the theme files from the dev server, installed the theme files, exported the content/media from the `appsdev` site, and imported it to my local version. Whew! :sweat_smile:

The items left as "to-do" in my asana are as follows:
- homepage
- custom post type: group posts
- custom post type: meeting minutes
- test user groups/permissions plugin

I think I should probably re-familiarize myself with the "flow" of the current intranet so I can get these custom post types working correctly. IIRC, there's such a mish-mash of post types in the intranet that it was hard to figure out what needed to be ported over. But I know the post types are important for the groups... I just wonder if there's a reason there are so many?

#### tickets

I went to the doctor (for the last time til next year!!) and when I came back, I had several tickets assigned to me. :laughing:

I transferred Donald's guide/assets to Jacob. I hope Steven can add Jacob to GA, because I looked at it, and I'm not sure what Jacob needs access to...

I was given the ticket about the weird icon PNG issue in the computer software app. I have an idea of what's going on with this, but I'll get to it tomorrow.

#### dspace

Another ticket is more of a continuation of a ticket I completed last week. I need to add a college and several communities to our IR homepage accordion. I'm going to put the instructions I wrote up last week here in my log.

##### updating colleges and communities

If you’re adding a community/college, all that’s necessary is to add the string to the appropriate array. For example, I just added “Department of Philosophy” to the “College of Arts & Sciences” array of departments. If that college/community doesn’t exist, you’ll get `undefined` on the page instead of name of the community/link. 

Edit the live file for immediate changes: `/srv/dspace/webapps/xmlui/themes/Mirage/lib/js/CustomJS.js`

Copy those changes to the `/srv/dspace-source/dspace/modules/xmlui/src/main/webapp/themes/Mirage/lib/js/CustomJS.js` file Drew lists above to make sure the latest changes you’ve made don’t get overwritten during a recompile. 

This editing the live file without needing to recompile works because it’s a javascript file that’s being loaded via the HTML `<script src=”…”></script>` and pulling straight from the server.


...So that's what I did. I added the list of departments to the file, and it populated the accordion just like last time. :+1:

### 13 sep

Y'all. Today is going to be great! A mystery person sent me birthday ice cream! My mechanical keyboard "treat yo'self" present is also being delivered today! :icecream::keyboard::fire::tada::fire: 

Today's tasks: 
- intranet migration
  - I need to write some custom post types, which I'd really like to do today
  - Add user groups
- Computer Software app icons uploading issue
- Whatever tickets happen to trickle in... I'm hoping the answer to this is zero so I can get some work done

#### intranet

I pushed the theme to a personal github repo. I just needed it vc'ed somewhere because not having version control makes me really anxious. Also, it would've been WAY easier to get started on this project than needing to bebop around the server and try to remember exactly *which* version of `ua-theme-child` was the most recent one. :roll_eyes:

#### website header

Well. Small emergency with the website header means I'll be pushing to production on a Friday... and a Friday the 13th with a full moon, no less! :grimacing:
