---
layout: post
title: "week of 04 march"
date: 2019-03-04
---

### 04 mar

Lots happening today. Knocked out the first half of new employee orientation, and I'm still debating if I'll go back tomorrow for the benefits session since I've already enrolled in everything. Maybe there's something else to glean there?

#### bash script, MD > RTF

When I got back to the office, I picked up where I left off with trying to set up a command line utility for converting markdown files to rich text format. I found some promising leads, but nothing was as helpful as this post on [pandoc, textutility, and pbcopy from ostricher](https://www.ostricher.com/2015/08/from-markdown-to-pastable-formatted-text-in-os-x-terminal/). Most of my time was spent trying to figure out how to add a find and replace action to take care of some weird encoding issue with apostrophes. To see the final script I ended up crafting, take a look at [my dotfiles > `~/.bash_profile`](https://github.com/carylwyatt/dotfiles). 

#### FOLIO dev curriculum, overview/setup

Now I'm working my way through the [FOLIO dev curriculum](https://dev.folio.org/tutorials/curriculum/overview/). I installed a bunch of stuff to my new work machine:
  - Java (JDK 11)
  - Maven (apache) 3.6
  - yarn 1.13
  - curl
  - VirtualBox 6
  - Vagrant 2.2.4

I followed all the directions in the curriculum overview for setting up a new directory and starting up vagrant/setting ROOT. 

#### FOLIO dev curriculum, part 1

Followed the instructions for building Okapi. I saw that the next step is to explore the API gateway, so I'm taking a little detour to google/youtube in an attempt to grasp the concept of API gateway as a microservice design pattern. This is all greek to me, so hopefully a few videos and articles will help shed some light on this topic.



