---
layout: post
title: "week of 31 aug"
date: 2020-08-31
---

### 01 sep

Still working on the Vue version of our new site, I swear! It had to be put on hold because of BUNCH of new projects came down the pike (*thanks, covid!*), but it continues!

I really want the students to be able to take part in this new build, it will be VERY helpful for me and really great for their experience! In order for them to contribute, I need to make sure we're all working with the same environment and tools. Docker to the rescue!

Thankfully, I don't have to reinvent the wheel on this. Some people who are no doubt smarter than me already created a docker image for headless WP with Vue/nuxt: [wuxt](https://github.com/northosts/wuxt)

This image is a bit out of date, so I of course thought it would be great fun to tinker with it and see how badly I could break it. :joy:

Once I got the container up and running, installed WP, and made sure the front end was loading, I started messing with the nuxt install. Here are my notes.

#### Upgrading nuxt inside wuxt container

- Use docker exec to drop you into command line for front end container: `docker-compose exec front.wuxt bash`
- Follow the nuxt docs to upgrade: change the line in `package.json` with the version of nuxt you want to upgrade to, delete `node_modules` folder and `yarn.lock`
- run `yarn` command
- I got some errors about a package that needs a stable version of node (meaning an even number), and the container I'm using had node:11-slim installed, so I had to get crafty and update the node version for the container.
- In `docker-compose.yml`, find the section for `front.wuxt` and change the image to whatever version of node you want; I went with `node:12-slim` since that's currently LTS/slim
- Do some `docker-compose down` and `docker-compose up -d` to pull down the new image and get that up and going
- I tried `yarn` again once I exec'd back into `front.wuxt`, but it was still giving me an error
- Decided to try the ol' `npm install` instead. This took FOREVER, but everything installed :woman_shrugging: Who knows what was up with yarn
- Before exiting exec mode, run `yarn` to rebuild your `yarn.lock` 
- Then run `yarn dev` to rebuild your nuxt app. This also took longer than I anticipated.
- Check `localhost:3080` to make sure WP is up, then `localhost:3000` for front end
- Party! :tada::tada:
